This is the Notre-Dame in Paris,
one of the most famous sights in the city.
But I'm not here for the view from the top
or for the flying buttresses and not even for religion.
I am here for something just outside.
If you look down from the top just outside the main entrance,
you will find a marker on the ground
called: "Point Zero".
"Point Zero" is the place where all distances
measured in France.
At the moment I am filming here
because once a person starts filming,
it attracts tourists in the same way as
traditional French bread attracts pigeons.
That is a visual metaphor for you.
France is not the only country with a "Point Zero";
many countries in the developed world have one.
There will be a marker or a monument somewhere in the capital
that says "this is where the numbering starts".
In the United Kingdom, however ...
... uh, no, we do not have one, nor the US
I mean, the United Kingdom has Charing Cross in London,
but a few roads have been measured here.
And in the United States, well, you have a marker in Washington, DC,
But yes, nobody uses it for anything.
Most states in the United States restart numbering as soon as a road enters their territory.
And, here in Paris, a marker has hardly ever been used
in these days of GPS and satellites.
But what you have is a relic of a past tense,
a marker that simply says "this is where we started".
This is back to the time that we already had the triangulation
and manual calculations were needed to map out something,
back to when it was handwritten.
This is where it all started.
That is "Point Zero" and that is something you may not have known.
Steven Junior & Flexitcam